My last operational duty was in San Diego with helicopter. See Combat
Squadron 23 were hello? Were they were a helicopter squadron. But the
interesting thing about H. C 23 is that they're one of the first squadrons
to incorporate unmanned aerial vehicles. A CZ part of their,
uh, it's part of their platform. So in addition to flying manned aircraft,
we were responsible for flying unmanned aircraft while down
there I was a department head, which means I was in charge of one of
about four departments that make up an aviation squatter, and I was
in charge of anywhere between 10 and 50 people at any one time. Basically,
the department head is responsible for making sure the squadron
is running, they using the knowledge that they have accumulated
over their career. And typically, a department head has about 11 years
experience or so they use that knowledge to kind of ensure the squadron
is going in the right direction for the commanding officer.
Of course, they have no no authority to command anybody in the squadron,
as that is for the commanding officer and perhaps his executive
officer. But if the department's aren't working well, then the squadron
can have problems in a real hurry. So between the lieutenant commanders
in the squadron and the non commissioned officers, that is
the chief senior Chiefs and master chief's there's There's two groups
of people probably most responsible for ensuring its smooth running
of aviation squadron. The squadron itself was attached to the littoral
combat ship, UH, which was is a small ship, and that I won't describe
in too much detail. But it's relatively new small and that we
would deploy with both, as I said, unmanned aircraft and manned aircraft.
And typically we are. Squadron would deploy to Singapore with
the littoral combat ship, which is called NLCS, and the LCS would be
based out of there so they'd be in and out of Singapore with a on
aviation component, every switching out every six months.